How do SSH keys work
Launch a terminal from your desktop's application menu and you will see
the bash shell. There are other shells, but most Linux distributions use
bash by default.
Test OpenSSH
Secure Shell (ssh) is a cryptographic network protocol for secure data
communication, remote command-line login, remote command execution, and
other secure network services between two networked computers. In short,
ssh provides a secure connection between 2 computers via insecure
channels (Network, Internet, telephone lines, ...).
"Secure" means that:
1.  the User is authenticated to the System; and
2.  the System is authenticated to the User; and
3.  all data is encrypted during transfer.
OpenSSH is a FREE implementation of the SSH connectivity protocol.  comes
with its own implementation of OpenSSH, so you don't need to install any
third-party software to use it. Just open a terminal window and jump in!
On all popular Linux distributions, the OpenSSH software is readily
available, and most often installed by default. You can check whether
the OpenSSH software is installed by opening a terminal and typing:
$ ssh -V
OpenSSH_7.4p1, OpenSSL 1.0.2k-fips 26 Jan 2017
To access the clusters and transfer your files, you will use the
following commands:
1.  ssh-keygen: to generate the SSH key pair (public + private key);
2.  ssh: to open a shell on a remote machine;
3.  sftp: a secure equivalent of ftp;
4.  scp: a secure equivalent of the remote copy command rcp.
Generate a public/private key pair with OpenSSH
A key pair might already be present in the default location inside your
home directory. Therefore, we first check if a key is available with the
"list short" ("ls") command:
ls ~/.ssh
If a key-pair is already available, you would normally get:
authorized_keys     id_rsa      id_rsa.pub      known_hosts
Otherwise, the command will show:
ls: .ssh: No such file or directory
You can recognise a public/private key pair when a pair of files has the
same name except for the extension ".pub" added to one of them. In this
particular case, the private key is "id_rsa" and public key is
"id_rsa.pub". You may have multiple keys (not necessarily in the
directory "~/.ssh") if you or your operating system requires this. Be
aware that your existing key pair might be too short, or not the right
type.
