Jupyter notebook
What is a Jupyter notebook
A Jupyter notebook is an interactive, web-based environment that allows you to create documents that contain live code, equations, visualizations, and plaintext. The code blocks in these documents can be used to write Python, Java, R and Julia code, among others. The combination of code executions with text and visual outputs make it a useful tool for data analysis, machine learning and educational purposes.
Using Jupyter Notebooks on the HPC
Launching a notebook using the web portal
Through the HPC-UGent web portal you can easily start a Jupyter notebook on a workernode, via the Jupyter Notebook button under the Interactive Apps menu item.


After starting the Jupyter notebook using the Launch button, you will see it being added in state Queued in the overview of interactive sessions (see My Interactive Sessions menu item):


When your job hosting the Jupyter notebook starts running, the status will first change the Starting:


and eventually the status will change to Running, and you will be able to connect to the Jupyter environment using the blue Connect to Jupyter button:


This will launch the Jupyter environment in a new browser tab, where you can open an existing notebook by navigating to the directory where it is located and clicking it. You can also create a new notebook by clicking on File>New>Notebook:


Using extra Python packages
A number of Python packages are readily available in modules on the HPC. To illustrate how to use them in a Jupyter notebook, we will make use of an example where we want to use numpy in our notebook.
The first thing we need to do is finding the modules that contain our package of choice. For numpy, this would be the SciPy-bundle modules.
To find the appropriate modules, it is recommended to use the shell within the web portal under Clusters>>_login Shell Access.


We can see all available versions of the SciPy module by using module avail SciPy-bundle:
$ module avail SciPy-bundle
------------------ /apps/gent/RHEL8/zen2-ib/modules/all ------------------
    SciPy-bundle/2022.05-foss-2022a    SciPy-bundle/2023.11-gfbf-2023b (D)
    SciPy-bundle/2023.07-gfbf-2023a
  Where:
   D:  Default Module
...
