MATLAB
 note
    To run a MATLAB program on the HPC-UGent infrastructure you must compile it first,
    because the MATLAB license server is not accessible from cluster workernodes
    (except for the interactive debug cluster).
    Compiling MATLAB programs is only possible on the interactive debug cluster,
    not on the HPC-UGent login nodes where resource limits w.r.t. memory and max. number of progress are too strict.
Why is the MATLAB compiler required?
The main reason behind this alternative way of using MATLAB is
licensing: only a limited number of MATLAB sessions can be active at the
same time. However, once the MATLAB program is compiled using the MATLAB
compiler, the resulting stand-alone executable can be run without
needing to contact the license server.
Note that a license is required for the MATLAB Compiler, see
https://nl.mathworks.com/help/compiler/index.html. If the mcc
command is provided by the MATLAB installation you are using, the MATLAB
compiler can be used as explained below.
Only a limited amount of MATLAB sessions can be active at the same time
because there are only a limited amount of MATLAB research licenses
available on the UGent MATLAB license server. If each job would need a
license, licenses would quickly run out.
How to compile MATLAB code
Compiling MATLAB code can only be done from the login nodes, because
only login nodes can access the MATLAB license server, workernodes on
clusters cannot.
To access the MATLAB compiler, the MATLAB module should be loaded
first. Make sure you are using the same MATLAB version to compile and
to run the compiled MATLAB program.
$ module avail MATLAB/
----------------------/apps/gent/RHEL8/zen2-ib/modules/all----------------------
   MATLAB/2021b    MATLAB/2022b-r5 (D)
$ module load MATLAB/2021b
After loading the MATLAB module, the mcc command can be used. To get
help on mcc, you can run mcc -?.
To compile a standalone application, the -m flag is used (the -v
flag means verbose output). To show how mcc can be used, we use the
magicsquare example that comes with MATLAB.
First, we copy the magicsquare.m example that comes with MATLAB to
example.m:
cp $EBROOTMATLAB/extern/examples/compiler/magicsquare.m example.m
To compile a MATLAB program, use mcc -mv:
