Compiling and testing your software on the HPC
All nodes in the HPC cluster are running the "RHEL 8.8 (accelgor, doduo, donphan, gallade, joltik, skitty)" 
Operating system, which is a specific version of Red Hat Enterprise Linux. This means that all the 
software programs
(executable) that the end-user wants to run on the HPC first must be
compiled for RHEL 8.8 (accelgor, doduo, donphan, gallade, joltik, skitty). It also means that you first have to install all the
required external software packages on the HPC.
Most commonly used compilers are already pre-installed on the HPC and can be
used straight away. Also, many popular external software packages, which
are regularly used in the scientific community, are also pre-installed.
Check the pre-installed software on the HPC
In order to check all the available modules and their version numbers,
which are pre-installed on the HPC enter:
When your required application is not available on the HPC please contact
any HPC member. Be aware of potential "License Costs". "Open Source"
software is often preferred.
Porting your code
To port a software-program is to translate it from the operating system in
which it was developed (e.g., Windows 7) to another operating system
(e.g., Red Hat Enterprise Linux on our HPC) so that it can be used there. Porting implies some
degree of effort, but not nearly as much as redeveloping the program in
the new environment. It all depends on how "portable" you wrote your
code.
In the simplest case the file or files may simply be copied from one
machine to the other. However, in many cases the software is installed
on a computer in a way, which depends upon its detailed hardware,
software, and setup, with device drivers for particular devices, using
installed operating system and supporting software components, and using
different directories.
In some cases software, usually described as "portable software" is
specifically designed to run on different computers with compatible
operating systems and processors without any machine-dependent
installation; it is sufficient to transfer specified directories and
their contents. Hardware- and software-specific information is often
stored in configuration files in specified locations (e.g., the registry
on machines running MS Windows).
Software, which is not portable in this sense, will have to be
transferred with modifications to support the environment on the
destination machine.
