The HPC currently consists of:
Two tools perform the Job management and job scheduling:
1.  TORQUE: a resource manager (based on PBS);
2.  Moab: job scheduler and management tools.
What the HPC infrastucture is not
The HPC infrastructure is not a magic computer that automatically:
1.  runs your PC-applications much faster for bigger problems;
2.  develops your applications;
3.  solves your bugs;
4.  does your thinking;
5.  ...
6.  allows you to play games even faster.
The HPC does not replace your desktop computer.
Is the HPC a solution for my computational needs?
Batch or interactive mode?
Typically, the strength of a supercomputer comes from its ability to run
a huge number of programs (i.e., executables) in parallel without any
user interaction in real time. This is what is called "running in batch
mode".
It is also possible to run programs at the HPC, which require user
interaction. (pushing buttons, entering input data, etc.). Although
technically possible, the use of the HPC might not always be the best and
smartest option to run those interactive programs. Each time some user
interaction is needed, the computer will wait for user input. The
available computer resources (CPU, storage, network, etc.) might not be
optimally used in those cases. A more in-depth analysis with the HPC staff
can unveil whether the HPC is the desired solution to run interactive
programs. Interactive mode is typically only useful for creating quick
visualisations of your data without having to copy your data to your
desktop and back.
What are cores, processors and nodes?
In this manual, the terms core, processor and node will be frequently
used, so it's useful to understand what they are.
Modern servers, also referred to as *(worker)nodes* in the context of
HPC, include one or more sockets, each housing a multi-core
processor (next to memory, disk(s), network cards, ...). A modern
processor consists of multiple CPUs or cores that are used to
execute computations.
Parallel or sequential programs? 
Parallel programs
Parallel computing is a form of computation in which many calculations are carried out
simultaneously. They are based on the principle that large problems can
often be divided into smaller ones, which are then solved concurrently
("in parallel").
Parallel computers can be roughly classified according to the level at
which the hardware supports parallelism, with multicore computers having
multiple processing elements within a single machine, while clusters use
multiple computers to work on the same task. Parallel computing has
become the dominant computer architecture, mainly in the form of
multicore processors.
