The two parallel programming paradigms most used in HPC are:
-   OpenMP for shared memory systems (multithreading): on multiple cores
    of a single node
-   MPI for distributed memory systems (multiprocessing): on multiple
    nodes
Parallel programs are more difficult to write than sequential ones, because concurrency
introduces several new classes of potential software bugs, of which race
conditions are the most common. Communication and synchronisation
between the different subtasks are typically some of the greatest
obstacles to getting good parallel program performance.
Sequential programs
Sequential software does not do calculations in parallel, i.e., it only
uses one single core of a single workernode. It does not become faster by just throwing more cores at it: it can only use one
core.
It is perfectly possible to also run purely sequential programs on the HPC.
Running your sequential programs on the most modern and fastest
computers in the HPC can save you a lot of time. But it also might be
possible to run multiple instances of your program (e.g., with different
input parameters) on the HPC, in order to solve one overall problem (e.g.,
to perform a parameter sweep). This is another form of running your
sequential programs in parallel.
What programming languages can I use?
You can use any programming language, any software package and any
library provided it has a version that runs on Linux, specifically, on
the version of Linux that is installed on the compute nodes, RHEL 8.8 (accelgor, doduo, donphan, gallade, joltik, skitty).
For the most common programming languages, a compiler is available on RHEL 8.8 (accelgor, doduo, donphan, gallade, joltik, skitty). Supported and common
programming languages on the HPC are C/C++, FORTRAN, Java, Perl, Python,
MATLAB, R, etc.
Supported and commonly used compilers are GCC and Intel.
Additional software can be installed "on demand". Please contact the HPC
staff to see whether the HPC can handle your specific requirements.
What operating systems can I use? 
All nodes in the HPC cluster run under RHEL 8.8 (accelgor, doduo, donphan, gallade, joltik, skitty), which is a specific version of Red Hat Enterprise Linux.
This means that all programs (executables) should be compiled for RHEL 8.8 (accelgor, doduo, donphan, gallade, joltik, skitty).
