Getting an HPC Account
Getting ready to request an account
All users of AUGent can request
an
account on the HPC, which is part of the Flemish Supercomputing Centre (VSC).
See HPC policies for more information on who is entitled to an account.
The VSC, abbreviation of Flemish Supercomputer Centre, is a virtual
supercomputer centre. It is a partnership between the five Flemish
associations: the Association KU Leuven, Ghent University Association,
Brussels University Association, Antwerp University Association and the
University Colleges-Limburg. The VSC is funded by the Flemish
Government.
There are two methods for connecting to HPC-UGent infrastructure:
- Using a terminal to connect via SSH.
- Using the web portal
The web portal offers a convenient way to upload files and gain shell access to the HPC-UGent infrastructure from a standard web browser (no software installation or configuration required).
If you would like use a terminal with SSH as this gives you more flexibility continue reading.
However if you prefer to use the web portal, you can skip ahead to the following section: Applying for the account.
Once you have successfully obtained an account, you can then delve into the details of utilizing the HPC-UGent web portal by reading Using the HPC-UGent web portal.
The HPC-UGent infrastructure clusters use public/private key pairs for user authentication
(rather than passwords). Technically, the private key is stored on your
local computer and always stays there; the public key is stored on the HPC.
Access to the HPC is granted to anyone who can prove to have access to the
corresponding private key on his local computer.
How do SSH keys work?
-   an SSH public/private key pair can be seen as a lock and a key
-   the SSH public key is equivalent with a lock: you give it to the
    VSC and they put it on the door that gives access to your account.
-   the SSH private key is like a physical key: you don't hand it out
    to other people.
-   anyone who has the key (and the optional password) can unlock the
    door and log in to the account.
-   the door to your VSC account is special: it can have multiple
    locks (SSH public keys) attached to it, and you only need to open
    one lock with the corresponding key (SSH private key) to open
    the door (log in to the account).
