And compile it (whilst including the "openmp" library) and run and
test it on the login-node:
$ module load GCC
$ gcc -fopenmp -o omp3 omp3.c
$ ./omp3
Total # loop iterations is 100000
Now run it in the cluster and check the result again.
$ qsub omp3.pbs
$ cat omp3.pbs.o*
Total # loop iterations is 100000
Other OpenMP directives
There are a host of other directives you can issue using OpenMP.
Some other clauses of interest are:
1.  barrier: each thread will wait until all threads have reached this
    point in the code, before proceeding
2.  nowait: threads will not wait until everybody is finished
3.  schedule(type, chunk) allows you to specify how tasks are spawned
    out to threads in a for loop. There are three types of scheduling
    you can specify
4.  if: allows you to parallelise only if a certain condition is met
5.  ... and a host of others
 tip
    If you plan engaging in parallel programming using OpenMP, this book may
    prove useful: *Using OpenMP - Portable Shared Memory Parallel
    Programming*. By Barbara Chapman Gabriele Jost and Ruud van der Pas
    Scientific and Engineering Computation. 2005.
Parallel Computing with MPI
The Message Passing Interface (MPI) is a standard defining core syntax
and semantics of library routines that can be used to implement parallel
programming in C (and in other languages as well). There are several
implementations of MPI such as Open MPI, Intel MPI, M(VA)PICH and
LAM/MPI.
In the context of this tutorial, you can think of MPI, in terms of its
complexity, scope and control, as sitting in between programming with
Pthreads, and using a high-level API such as OpenMP. For a Message
Passing Interface (MPI) application, a parallel task usually consists of
a single executable running concurrently on multiple processors, with
communication between the processes. This is shown in the following
diagram:
The process numbers 0, 1 and 2 represent the process rank and have
greater or less significance depending on the processing paradigm. At
the minimum, Process 0 handles the input/output and determines what
other processes are running.
The MPI interface allows you to manage allocation, communication, and
synchronisation of a set of processes that are mapped onto multiple
nodes, where each node can be a core within a single CPU, or CPUs within
a single machine, or even across multiple machines (as long as they are
networked together).
