Optimal load
What is the "optimal load" rule of thumb?
The load averages tell us whether our physical CPUs are over- or
under-utilised. The point of perfect utilisation, meaning that the CPUs are always busy and, yet, no
process ever waits for one, is **the
average matching the number of CPUs**. Your load should not exceed the number
of cores available. E.g., if there are four CPUs on a machine and the
reported one-minute load average is 4.00, the machine has been utilising
its processors perfectly for the last 60 seconds. The "100% utilisation"
mark is 1.0 on a single-core system, 2.0 on a dual-core, 4.0 on a
quad-core, etc. The optimal load shall be between 0.7 and 1.0 per
processor.
In general, the intuitive idea of load averages is the higher they rise
above the number of processors, the more processes are waiting and doing
nothing, and the lower they fall below the number of processors, the
more untapped CPU capacity there is.
Load averages do include any processes or threads waiting on I/O,
networking, databases or anything else not demanding the CPU. This means
that the optimal number of applications running on a system at the
same time, might be more than one per processor.
The "optimal number of applications" running on one machine at the same time depends on the type of
the applications that you are running.
1.  When you are running computational intensive applications, one application per processor will generate
    the optimal load.
2.  For I/O intensive applications (e.g., applications which perform a lot of disk-I/O), a higher
    number of applications can generate the optimal load. While some
    applications are reading or writing data on disks, the processors
    can serve other applications.
The optimal number of applications on a machine could be empirically
calculated by performing a number of stress tests, whilst checking the
highest throughput. There is however no manner in the HPC at the moment to
specify the maximum number of applications that shall run per core
dynamically. The HPC scheduler will not launch more than one process per
core.
The manner how the cores are spread out over CPUs does not matter for
what regards the load. Two quad-cores perform similar to four
dual-cores, and again perform similar to eight single-cores. It's all
eight cores for these purposes.
