qsub -I
cd ~/examples/Fine-tuning-Job-Specifications
Specifying Walltime
[//]: # (sec:specifying-walltime-requirements)
One of the most important and also easiest parameters to measure is the
duration of your program. This information is needed to specify the
walltime.
The time utility executes and times your application. You can just add the time
command in front of your normal command line, including your command
line options. After your executable has finished, time writes the total time
elapsed, the time consumed by system overhead, and the time used to
execute your executable to the standard error stream. The calculated
times are reported in seconds.
Test the time command:
$ time sleep 75
real 1m15.005s
user 0m0.001s
sys 0m0.002s
It is a good practice to correctly estimate and specify the run time
(duration) of an application. Of course, a margin of 10% to 20% can be
taken to be on the safe side.
It is also wise to check the walltime on different compute nodes or to
select the "slowest" compute node for your walltime tests. Your estimate
should be appropriate in case your application will run on the "slowest"
(oldest) compute nodes.
The walltime can be specified in a job scripts as:
#PBS -l walltime=3:00:00:00
or on the command line
qsub -l walltime=3:00:00:00
It is recommended to always specify the walltime for a job.
Specifying memory requirements
[//]: # (sec:specifying-memory-requirements)
In many situations, it is useful to monitor the amount of memory an
application is using. You need this information to determine the
characteristics of the required compute node, where that application
should run on. Estimating the amount of memory an application will use
during execution is often non-trivial, especially when one uses
third-party software.
Available Memory on the machine
The first point is to be aware of the available free memory in your
computer. The "free" command displays the total amount of free and
used physical and swap memory in the system, as well as the buffers used
by the kernel. We also use the options "-m" to see the results expressed
in Mega-Bytes and the "-t" option to get totals.
