How do SSH keys work
Since all VSC clusters use Linux as their main operating system, you
will need to get acquainted with using the command-line interface and
using the terminal (see tutorial).
A typical Windows environment does not come with pre-installed software
to connect and run command-line executables on a HPC. Some tools need to be
installed on your Windows machine first, before we can start the actual
work.
Get PuTTY: A free telnet/SSH client
We recommend to use the PuTTY tools package, which is freely available.
You do not need to install PuTTY, you can download the PuTTY and
PuTTYgen executable and run it. This can be useful in situations where
you do not have the required permissions to install software on the
computer you are using. Alternatively, an installation package is also
available.
You can download PuTTY from the official address:
https://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/latest.html. You
probably want the 64-bits version. If you can install software on your
computer, you can use the "Package files", if not, you can download and
use putty.exe and puttygen.exe in the "Alternative binary files"
section.
The PuTTY package consists of several components, but we'll only use
two:
1. PuTTY: the Telnet and SSH client itself (to login, see Open a terminal)
2.  PuTTYgen: an RSA and DSA key generation utility (to generate a key pair,
    see Generate a public/private key pair)
Generating a public/private key pair
Before requesting a VSC account, you need to generate a pair of ssh
keys. You need 2 keys, a public and a private key. You can visualise the
public key as a lock to which only you have the key (your private key).
You can send a copy of your lock to anyone without any problems, because
only you can open it, as long as you keep your private key secure. To
generate a public/private key pair, you can use the PuTTYgen key
generator.
Start PuTTYgen.exe it and follow these steps:
1.  In "Parameters" (at the bottom of the window), choose "RSA" and set the number of
    bits in the key to 4096.
2.  Click on "Generate". To generate the key, you must move the mouse cursor over
    the PuTTYgen window (this generates some random data that PuTTYgen
    uses to generate the key pair). Once the key pair is generated, your
    public key is shown in the field "Public key for pasting into OpenSSH authorized_keys file".
3.  Next, it is advised to fill in the "Key comment" field to make it easier
    identifiable afterwards.
4.  Next, you should specify a passphrase in the "Key passphrase" field and retype it in
    the "Confirm passphrase" field. Remember, the passphrase protects the private key against
    unauthorised use, so it is best to choose one that is not too easy
    to guess but that you can still remember. Using a passphrase is not
    required, but we recommend you to use a good passphrase unless you
    are certain that your computer's hard disk is encrypted with a
    decent password. (If you are not sure your disk is encrypted, it
    probably isn't.)
5.  Save both the public and private keys in a folder on your personal
    computer (We recommend to create and put them in the folder
    "C:\\Users\\%USERNAME%\\AppData\\Local\\PuTTY\\.ssh") with the
    buttons "Save public key" and "Save private key". We recommend using the name "id_rsa.pub" for the public key, and
    "id_rsa.ppk" for the private key.
6.  Finally, save an "OpenSSH" version of your private key (in
    particular for later "X2Go" usage, see x2go) by entering the
    "Conversions" menu and selecting "Export OpenSSH key" (do not select the
    "force new file format" variant). Save the file in the same location
    as in the previous step with filename "id_rsa". (If there is no
    "Conversions" menu, you must update your "puttygen" version. If you
    want to do this conversion afterwards, you can start with loading an
    existing "id_rsa.ppk" and only do this conversions export.)
