Connecting to the HPC infrastructure
Before you can really start using the HPC clusters, there are several things
you need to do or know:
1.  You need to log on to the cluster using an SSH client to one of
    the login nodes or by using the HPC web portal.
    This will give you command-line access.
    A standard web browser like Firefox or Chrome for the web portal will suffice.
2.  Before you can do some work, you'll have to transfer the files
    that you need from your desktop computer to the cluster. At the end
    of a job, you might want to transfer some files back.
3.  Optionally, if you wish to use programs with a **graphical user
    interface**, you will need an X-server on your client system and log
    in to the login nodes with X-forwarding enabled.
4.  Often several versions of software packages and libraries are
    installed, so you need to select the ones you need. To manage
    different versions efficiently, the VSC clusters use so-called
    modules, so you will need to select and load the modules that
    you need.
Connection restrictions
Since March 20th 2020, restrictions are in place that limit from where
you can connect to the VSC HPC infrastructure, in response to security
incidents involving several European HPC centres.
VSC login nodes are only directly accessible from within university
networks, and from (most) Belgian commercial internet providers.
All other IP domains are blocked by default. If you are connecting from
an IP address that is not allowed direct access, you have the following
options to get access to VSC login nodes:
-   Use an VPN connection to connect to UGent the network (recommended). See https://helpdesk.ugent.be/vpn/en/ for more information. 
-   Whitelist your IP address automatically by accessing
    https://firewall.vscentrum.be and log in with your UGent account.
    -   While this web connection is active new SSH sessions can be
        started.
    -   Active SSH sessions will remain active even when this web page
        is closed.
-   Contact your HPC support team (via hpc@ugent.be) and ask them to whitelist your
    IP range (e.g., for industry access, automated processes).
Trying to establish an SSH connection from an IP address that does not
adhere to these restrictions will result in an immediate failure to
connect, with an error message like:
